#  Project Goal:The goal of this project is to cluster NFL teams based on positional spending allocation in order to see if the allocations lead to any meaningful differences in tangible results such as statistics produced in game and wins per season. This project uses positional salary data, statistical data, and data containing win percentages between the seasons of 2017 and 2020.# Project Summary:I use KMeans to perform the clustering for this project.  I use PCA for dimension reduction. The final result is 6 clusters that show evidence of positional spending affecting stats and wins, is only good as a basis because the amount of data available is small, making it difficult to fully trust the results.# Summary of Data:For this project, I use 3 types of data.The first type is positional spending allocations of each team between the years of 2017 and 2020 from Spotrac. 2017 is the furthest back the site allows a user to go for free, which creates a concerns over data size, but it has to do for this issue. The other two types come from Pro Football Reference. I use the Total Offense and Total Defense tables from their respective pages for all the teams between the seasons of 2017 and 2020. Because the 2020 season is not finished, I take per game stats from each season instead of the raw total stats. Each table is technically 35x28, but the final 3 rows are meaningless to this project, so only the first 32 rows (corresponding to each NFL team for that season) are used.I also take team statistics from 2017-2020, which comes in AFC and NFC standings format. I only end up using the win percentage data from this data.# Summary of Files:## Notebooks:Technical Notebook:The technical notebook, containing the report of the project.Model BuildingThe notebook used to make the models used for this project.## utils.py:A file containing scripts for use with the project.## Data:A folder containing the data used for the project. The positional spending data is an excel file made by me by entering information from Spotrac. The base information is the salary each player made in each season, along with age, year, team, position, and so on. An example of this data can be found [here](https://www.spotrac.com/nfl/washington-football-team/positional/2017/full-cap/).The rest of the data comes from Pro Football Reference. An example of the offensive data can be found [here](https://www.pro-football-reference.com/years/2020/index.htm), and an example of the defensive data can be found [here](https://www.pro-football-reference.com/years/2020/index.htm). Total Offense and Total Defense are the tables used, and toggle per game stats.For the data containing win percentages, it is from the same place as the offensive data. It is taken from the standings tables, and each season has 2 tables, one for the AFC and one for the NFC.NOTE: The data from these sources is subject to the terms of the sites housing the data, and my copyright on this project cannot overwrite that. Check with the sites to see usage rules for the data.## Visualizations:A folder containing the visualizations used in the technical notebook.# Required Packages:For this project, I use sys, yellowbrick, and pandas in my model building notebook, as well as my own utils file, which in turn uses os, pandas, matplotlib, numpy, KElbowVisualizer, KMeans, StandardScaler, and PCA.